Add backup and restore instructions. (#80)
ehuelsmann/ledgersmb-book: appendices.tex

\section{Migrating between PostgreSQL versions}
\label{sec-migration-postrgesql}

There are generally 2 ways to upgrade PostgreSQL\index{PostgreSQL upgrade} that apply to normal LSMB installations. 
Both are described in the current PostgreSQL documentation at \url{https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/index.html}.
\begin{enumerate}
    \item Dump\index{dump} and restore\index{restore} -
        Described in more detail below.
        Note that the roles must be restored before database creation and the data restore.
    \item Upgrade in place using \texttt{pg\_upgrade}\index{pg\_upgrade} - When doing an upgrade in place, there are no specific LedgerSMB requirements.
        Beware, upgrade in place requires both versions of the PostgreSQL to be installed and working. It is therefore more complex.
\end{enumerate}

> LedgerSMB versions prior to version 1.9.16 did not support PostgreSQL 14 or higher due to a backward incompatible change in PostgreSQL 14.

Reviewer: Maybe we should advise that anybody upgrading to Pg14 needs to upgrade to at least LSMB 1.10 first?

The following examples use the  \texttt{lsmb\_dbadmin} for the database administrative user. 

> Recent LedgerSMB installs do not automatically create an  \texttt{lsmb\_dbadmin}\index{lsmb\_dbadmin} user.

Reviewer: Older ones didn't either... Creating a lsmb_admin user is our advice because it prevents using the super user, meaning that even though this user *can* create new users, we are 100% sure it won't ever be a super user.

The lsmb_admin user isn't a precondition, though. We consider it general good security practice.

Author: Done

Reviewer: > What is the procedure and permissions required for lsmb_admin to do backup and restore? Is this documented someplace?

It not being a super user,  you should be able to back up a database that's created with lsmb_admin, however, a database created by any other user won't be possible to back up with lsmb_admin, unless it's a super user.

It's flat out impossible to create a role backup with lsmb_admin, because roles are so-called "globals" and you need a super user to access *all* globals and thus a backup of them.

        Then make sure it is complete by logging into the temporary LedgerSMB installation and inspecting reports, accounts, etc. 
        Do not proceed unless you are sure your backups can be restored completely and accurately.
    \item Create a new LedgerSMB installation with the new version PostgreSQL. 
        The instructions for a new install are at \url{https://ledgersmb.org/installation}\index{installation}.
    \item The next 3 restore steps, using \texttt{psql}, came from \url{https://ledgersmb.org/faq/how-do-i-restore-my-data}\index{faq database restore}\index{database restore}, which these instructions supersede. 
        Other restore tools might work, but they have not been tested.
    \item Restore the "roles" backup. The \texttt{psql} syntax is:
        
        \texttt{\$ psql -h [database host] -U [database admin user] < [roles backup file]}
        
        For example:
        
        \texttt{\$ psql -h localhost -U lsmb\_dbadmin < lsmb-roles.sqlc}
    \item Create a new database. 
        The database name is usually very similar to the company name. 

>         Do not create the database using \texttt{setup.pl} as the restore in the next step will setup the company.   The \texttt{psql} syntax is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Do not create the database using \texttt{setup.pl} as that creates the company structure inside the database, which will interfere with the restore.   The \texttt{psql} syntax is:

```

    \item Replace the old LSMB installation with the new installation. 
        The exact steps to accomplish this varies based on how LSMB was originally installed.
    \item Allow users to use LSMB.
\end{enumerate}

\subsection{Notes on migration from PostgreSQL 8.3 (or earlier) to 8.4 - deprecated }
\label{subsec-migration-pre84-to84plus}

\vspace{5mm}
\begin{center}
\large{The content of this sub-section is deprecated, unedited, and only remains for historical reference purposes.}
\end{center}
\vspace{5mm}

Performance benefit due to built in support for recursive queries only available
after the next setup.pl run
Also, after next setup.pl run, one should uninstall the tablefunc extension

In 9.1+ may need to \texttt{DROP EXTENSION tablefunc;}.

In 8.4, to 9.0 may need to  \texttt{uninstall\_tablefunc.sql} from the PostgreSQL contrib directory.

LedgerSMB 1.3 uses some extension modules for versions PostgreSQL 8.3 and before for functionality
that has been built into PostgreSQL 8.4 and later. To make use of the (faster) built in version
of that functionality, the following restore procedure should be used.

\begin{enumerate}

> \item Migrate the database to the new function as described in section

Reviewer: Which section? (The @@@ TODO was meant to add a reference to the section (by bookmark))

Author: Yes it was.  My first thought was to delete this section completely.  But after I looked at it, it seemed like there was some historical information that should stick around.  There would actually be a lot of work to try to figure out what exactly was the intent.  So I just tried to remove the obvious. I don't think this section has any integrity.  

Hence the comment at the beginning, "The content of this sub-section is deprecated, unedited, and only remains for historical reference purposes".

I am going to delete " as described in section" and just leave it, unless someone else who was involved at the time cares to sort it out.
